Team Contract

Communication:
Team Meetings
We plan to meet once every week at minimum to discuss the project and our progress. We anticipate every meeting to last from one to two hours and we dont expect it to go longer than that. We are planning to have these meetings in person and since we live near each other and like to work in the same buildings daily it should not be too difficult. We don't plan to formally take notes every meeting, but rather plan on taking notes according to what we individually deem necessary.
Assistance
We have each other's numbers and have also made a Discord group chat so we plan to communicate via those channels. We are pretty active on Discord and iMessage so we expect to respond the same day. We all text daily since we are pretty good friends so responses are anticipated to be immediate.
Respect
We have really good relationships with each other socially and we plan on mirroring this relationship for our project as well. We will make sure to take ideas from everyone and come to a compromise so that everyone's voice is heard. We will always make sure to be empathetic and respectful to everyone's ideas and will come into this project with an open mind and willingness to work with each other. If a team member does not follow this etiquette we will make sure to remind them to accept everyone's ideas in a positive and kind way. We will foster a friendly and open environment and make sure every team member is comfortable voicing their struggles, concerns, comments, and suggestions.

Collaboration:
Work Distribution:
We will discuss the responsibilities and goals that need to be met for the project based on what our vision is for the project as well as what is in the rubric. We will then discuss amongst ourselves and decide where each of our interests and skill sets lie and divide the workload from there. We plan to work closely together so if there are any unforeseen circumstances or complications we will work on it together and try to help each other our best we can. We will try to foster a very collaborative environment and will make sure everyone feels comfortable sharing any roadblocks or issues they have so that we can all help each other be successful and learn new things!
 
Time Commitment:
We anticipate each week to vary in terms of how many hours of work is expected of each member. We anticipate the range to be 1 to 4 hours per week, just depending on the task and how challenging it may be. We are all in a variety of extracurriculars but will be sure to carve out time for this project in our schedules. We understand that things can happen and any conflicts that do occur we will handle accordingly. Being students ourselves we know and are sympathetic to unexpected things coming up or happening throughout the week and we will make sure to all be understanding and work through any obstacles.

Conflict Resolution
 If there are any disagreements between team members we will all talk it out as a group and weigh out the pros and cons of the options. We will then try our best to come to the best solution or compromise possible for the issue. If one or more members have not accomplished their tasks we will do our best to touch base weekly and talk about our progress and make sure to help each other early on so that the work not done is not insanely significant. We will also be sure to discuss why certain tasks are not done and use that as a learning experience to prevent that from happening again in the future weeks. If one or more team members are habitually late we will gently remind them to come on time or find a different time that works better for them and everyone else. We don't anticipate this happening too much since we see each other daily. We will continue to communicate openly, honestly, and kindly and do not expect any situation to escalate badly, but in the off chance that does happen we will be sure to try to resolve the issue as a team respectfully. If that does not work we know that we can also seek help from the course staff!
 
Signatures:
Zainab Sajid zsajid2
Khatija Syeda kasyeda2
Abhi Thanvi athanvi2
Idrees Mohammed imoha9
